BitKwa Bitcoin Diploma Curriculum
Chapter 1: Money (The History, What is, & Why Do We Need it?)
Chapter 2: Fiat Money, Its Problems, and the Search for Solutions
Chapter 3: Bitcoin: Introduction & How to Use It
Chapter 4: The Lightning Network
Chapter 5: An Introduction to the Technical Side of Bitcoin
Chapter 6: Bitcoin for Activism: Privacy & Human Rights
Chapter 7: Careers & Building in Bitcoin (Africa Focus)


Chapter 1: Money (The History, What is, & Why Do We Need it?)
Introduction
Meet Satoshi
Activity: Five Questions on Money
Class Discussion — Why Do We Need Money?
Activity: Class Discussion — What is Money?
Definition of Money
Functions of Money
Properties of Money
Types of Money
Psychology of Money: Scarcity, Time Preference, and Trade-Offs
Activity: Time Preference
Activity: Barter Game
Evolution from Barter to Modern Currency
Problems with Early Forms of Money
Development of Coinage and Paper Money
Transition from Sound to Unsound Money
Paper to Plastic
Digital Currency



Chapter 2: Fiat Money, Its Problems, and the Search for Solutions
Introduction
Brief History of Fiat Money
The Fiat System
A Monetary System by Decree
Fractional Reserve Banking: A System Fueled by Debt
Who Controls the Fiat System and How Do They Benefit?
Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs): The Future of Fiat Money
Introduction to the Problem
Decreasing Purchasing Power
Monetary Inflation and Its Effect on Purchasing Power
Activity: The Effects of Inflation — An Auction Activity
The Global Debt Burden and Social Inequality
Impact on the Individual — Loss of Purchasing Power
Impact on Society — Increasing Wealth Inequality
Activity: Consequences of the Fiat System
The Global Debt Burden
The Cypherpunks and the Quest for a Decentralized Currency
The Cypherpunks
Centralized vs. Decentralized Systems
Brief History of Digital Currencies



Chapter 3: Bitcoin: Introduction, The Why, & How to Use It
Satoshi Nakamoto and the Creation of Bitcoin
How Does Bitcoin Work?
The Nakamoto Consensus Mechanism
The Players of the Game
Activity: Consensus Building in a Peer-to-Peer Network
Bitcoin as Sound Digital Money
Introduction
Bitcoin’s Features
Activity: Class Discussion — Is Bitcoin Sound Money?
Embracing Personal Responsibility
Acquiring and Exchanging Bitcoin
P2P: Physical
P2P: Online
Centralized Exchanges
An Introduction to Bitcoin Wallets
Self-Custodial vs. Custodial Wallets
Different Types of Bitcoin Wallets
Open Source vs. Closed Source Wallets
Activity: Class Evaluation of Bitcoin Wallets
Setting Up a Mobile Bitcoin Wallet
Activity: Setting Up/Recovering a Bitcoin Wallet
Receiving and Sending Transactions
Activity: Bitcoin Transactions in Action
Saving in Bitcoin
Don’t Trust, Verify
WHY
Activity: What Could a Bitcoin Future Look Like?
What Are CBDCs and Who Controls Them?
The Philosophy of Bitcoin
Activity: Class Discussion — Do You Have the Right to Control Your Own Money?
Benefits of Bitcoin
An Empowered Future
Activity: Class Discussion — How Did Your Perspective Change?

Chapter 4: The Lightning Network
Introduction
What is the Lightning Network?
How the Lightning Network Works
Benefits and Limitations of Lightning
Activity: Lightning Network Demonstration


Chapter 5: An Introduction to the Technical Side of Bitcoin
Introduction
Bitcoin Supply Schedule & Halvings
Mining and Proof-of-Work
Nodes and Validation
The Blockchain Ledger
The Mempool
How Transactions Work (step-by-step process): Bitcoin Transactions & UTXOs


Chapter 6: Bitcoin for Activism: Privacy & Human Rights
6.0 Introduction
6.1 Money, Power & Human Rights
6.2 Why Privacy Matters
6.3 Tools for Bitcoin Privacy
6.4 Bitcoin for Activism & Humanitarian Work
6.5 Bitcoin in Oppressive Environment
6.6 Bitcoin & Human Rights Framework
6.7 Responsible & Secure Use
6.8 Bitcoin as a Tool for Freedom in Africa
6.9 Class Activities
6.10 Summary & Reflection


Chapter 7: Careers & Building in Bitcoin (Africa Focus)
7.0 Introduction
7.1 The Global Bitcoin Industry Landscape
7.2 Bitcoin Careers in Africa
7.3 Building with Bitcoin in Africa
7.4 Entrepreneurial Opportunities in Bitcoin
7.5 Skills Needed for Bitcoin Careers
7.6 Pathways to Global & Local Opportunities
7.7 Challenges & How to Overcome Them
7.8 Class Activities
7.9 Summary & Reflection
